Introduce provisional bot API + blanket improvements on docs (#7837)
hammerandchisel/discord-api-docs: docs/discord-social-sdk/development-guides/using-provisional-accounts.mdx

---

## Getting Set Up
### Choosing an Authentication Method

Discord offers a number of authentication methods, the one you use depends on how you game and account system is set up:

1. Use the [Bot Token Endpoint](/docs/discord-social-sdk/development-guides/using-provisional-accounts#bot-token-endpoint#) if your game has an account system which uniquely identifies users. This is the recommended approach when possible.
2. Use the [External Credentials Exchange Endpoint](/docs/discord-social-sdk/development-guides/using-provisional-accounts#external-credentials-exchange-endpoint) if you have an existing OIDC provider, or do not have an account system.
3. Use the [Client Side Token Exchange Method](/docs/discord-social-sdk/development-guides/using-provisional-accounts#provisional-account-authentication-for-public-clients) if you are using a Public Client.

> If you are using (2) or (3), you must configure you identity provider before proceeding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using (2) or (3), you must configure you identity provider before being able to create provisional accounts.
```

Minor nit: Just being more explicit.

### Configuring Your Identity Provider

:::warn

> If you are using the bot token endpoint, no configuration is required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using the bot token endpoint, no Identity Provider configuration is required.
```

Nit: just a bit more explicit.

| EPIC_ONLINE_SERVICES_ID_TOKEN     | ID token for Epic Online Services. Supports both EOS Auth + Connect ID tokens |
| UNITY_SERVICES_ID_TOKEN           | Unity Services authentication ID token                                        |
| DISCORD_BOT_ISSUED_ACCESS_TOKEN   | An access token for a user authenticated via the Bot Token Endpoint           |

---

## Implementing Provisional Accounts

Creating a Provisional Account and requesting an Access Token for the account always happens in a single step.

You provide external authentication and uniquely identifies the user, and Discord finds a user associated with that identifier.

- If there is no account associated with the identity, a new provisional account is created along with a new access token for the user.
- If there is a provisional account associated with the identity, an access token is returned.
- If there is an existing _full Discord account_ associated with the identity, the request is aborted (See [Error Handling](/docs/discord-social-sdk/development-guides/using-provisional-accounts#error-handling)).

Once authentication is complete, you can use the access token as you would a full Discord user's access token.

> ### Provisional Account Authentication for Servers

Reviewer: This reads like you need to implement both `https://discord.com/api/v10/partner-sdk/token/bot` and `https://discord.com/api/v10/partner-sdk/token` if you are doing server side authentication (which I'm pretty sure isn't true - correct me if wrong?)

My thought to split this up would be to have two `### Provisional Account Authentication for Servers` headings, maybe something like:

```
### Server Authentication with Account Systems

:::info
This is the recommended approach as it provides the simplest integration option with provisional accounts.
:::

... code example ...

### Server Authentication with OIDC Providers

... code example ...

```

Author: followed your suggestion, only slightly different wordings on the headers

If you are not using the [`Client::GetProvisionalToken`] method, you'll need to make a request to the Discord API provisional account token endpoint.

#### Bot Token Endpoint
```python
# filepath: your_game/server/auth.py
import requests
from models import GameAccount

def get_provisional_token(game_account: GameAccount):
  response = requests.post(
    'https://discord.com/api/v10/partner-sdk/token/bot',
    json={
      'external_user_id': game_account.id,
      'preferred_global_name': game_account.display_name,
    }
  )
  return response.json()

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```python
# filepath: your_game/server/auth.py
import requests
from models import GameAccount

def get_provisional_token(game_account: GameAccount):
  response = requests.post(
    'https://discord.com/api/v10/partner-sdk/token/bot',
    json={
      'external_user_id': game_account.id,       # your account system's unique id
      'preferred_global_name': game_account.display_name, # your account system's display name for the user
    }
  )
  return response.json()
```
```

#### Bot Token Endpoint Response

```python
{
  "access_token": "<access token>",
  "id_token": "<id token>",
  "token_type": "Bearer",
  "expires_in": 3600,
  "scope": "sdk.social_layer"
}
```

#### External Credentials Exchange Endpoint
```python
# filepath: your_game/server/auth.py
import requests

def get_provisional_token(external_token: str):
  response = requests.post(
    'https://discord.com/api/v10/partner-sdk/token',
    json={
      'client_id': CLIENT_ID,
      'client_secret': CLIENT_SECRET,
      'external_auth_type': EXTERNAL_AUTH_TYPE,  # See External Auth Types above
      'external_auth_token': external_token
    }
  )
  return response.json()
```

#### External Credentials Exchange Response

```python
{
  "access_token": "<access token>",
  "id_token": "<id token>",
  "token_type": "Bearer",
  "expires_in": 3600,
  "refresh_token": "<refresh token>", # only provided for OIDC when *not* a public client
  "scope": "sdk.social_layer"
}
```

> ### Provisional Account Authentication for Public Clients

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Authentication for Public Clients
```

(if we do the heading suggestion I suggested above - to keep everything consistent)

## Merging Provisional Accounts

When a player wants to convert their provisional account to a full Discord account, we start a special version of the [access token request flow](/docs/discord-social-sdk/development-guides/account-linking-with-discord#requesting-access-tokens) where the provisional users external identity is included.

- If you have a backend, follow [Merging Provisional Accounts for Servers](/docs/discord-social-sdk/development-guides/using-provisional-accounts#merging-provisional-accounts-for-servers)
- If you do not have a backend, follow [Merging Provisional Accounts for Public Clients ](/docs/discord-social-sdk/development-guides/using-provisional-accounts#merging-provisional-accounts-for-public-clients)

### Merging Provisional Accounts for Servers

> Merging is as simple as including `external_auth_type` and `external_auth_token` in a request to `/oauth2/token`. Discord will look up the Provisional User associated with the provided identity and attempt to merge it in to the full Discord account that generated the provided `code`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To merge provisional accounts, include `external_auth_type` and `external_auth_token` values with a request to `/oauth2/token`. Discord will look up the Provisional User associated with the provided identity and attempt to merge it in to the full Discord account that generated the provided `code`.
```

Nit: saying words like "easy" and "simple" on things can be frustrating for the end user, in case they actually aren't easy or simple for them. I shy away from subjective adjectives in documentation as a rule of thumb.

}
```

### Merging Provisional Accounts for Public Clients

<PublicClient />

If you do not have a backend, leverage the [`Client::GetTokenFromProvisionalMerge`] (Desktop & Mobile) or [`Client::GetTokenFromDeviceProvisionalMerge`] (Console) method, which will handle the entire process for you. You'll want to first enable Public Client on your Discord application's OAuth2 tab on the Discord developer portal. You can then leverage the [`Client::GetTokenFromProvisionalMerge`] or [`Client::GetTokenFromDeviceProvisionalMerge`] method using just the client.

> This function should be used with the Client::Authorize function whenever a user with a provisional account wants to link to an existing Discord account or "upgrade" their provisional account into a "full" Discord account.

Reviewer: Since we're here, small cleanup.

```suggestion
This function should be used with the [`Client::Authorize`] function whenever a user with a provisional account wants to link to an existing Discord account or "upgrade" their provisional account into a "full" Discord account.
```
